# Techniques

sqlmap is able to detect and exploit five different SQL injection **types**:

* **Boolean-based blind**: sqlmap replaces or appends to the affected parameter in the HTTP request, a syntatically valid SQL statement string containing a `SELECT` sub-statement, or any other SQL statement whose the user want to retrieve the output. For each HTTP response, by making a comparison between the HTTP response headers/body with the original request, the tool inference the output of the injected statement character by character. Alternatively, the user can provide a string or regular expression to match on True pages. The bisection algorithm implemented in sqlmap to perform this technique is able to fetch each character of the output with a maximum of seven HTTP requests. Where the output is not within the clear-text plain charset, sqlmap will adapt the algorithm with bigger ranges to detect the output.
* **Time-based blind**: sqlmap replaces or appends to the affected parameter in the HTTP request, a syntatically valid SQL statement string containing a query which put on hold the back-end DBMS to return for a certain number of seconds. For each HTTP response, by making a comparison between the HTTP response time with the original request, the tool inference the output of the injected statement character by character. Like for boolean-based technique, the bisection algorithm is applied.
* **Error-based**: sqlmap replaces or appends to the affected parameter a database-specific error message provoking statement and parses the HTTP response headers and body in search of DBMS error messages containing the injected pre-defined chain of characters and the subquery statement output within. This technique works only when the web application has been configured to disclose back-end database management system error messages.
* **UNION query**: sqlmap appends to the affected parameter a syntactically valid SQL statement starting with an `UNION ALL SELECT`. This techique works when the web application page passes directly the output of the `SELECT` statement within a `for` loop, or similar, so that each line of the query output is printed on the page content. sqlmap is also able to exploit **partial (single entry) UNION query SQL injection** vulnerabilities which occur when the output of the statement is not cycled in a `for` construct, whereas only the first entry of the query output is displayed.
* **Stacked queries**, also known as **piggy backing**: sqlmap tests if the web application supports stacked queries and then, in case it does support, it appends to the affected
parameter in the HTTP request, a semi-colon (`;`) followed by the SQL statement to be executed. This technique is useful to run SQL statements other than `SELECT`, like for instance, **data definition** or **data manipulation** statements, possibly leading to file system read and write access and operating system command execution depending on the underlying back-end database management system and the session user privileges.
